CHAPTER I:
MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES.

in the year 1878, I took my degree of doctor of medicine from the university of london. he went through the course prescribed for surgeons in the army. the regiment was stationed in India at the time, and before joining it, the second Afghan war had broken out.

the campaign brought honours and promotion to many, but for me it had nothing but misfortune and disaster. I was removed from my brigade and attached to the Berkshires with whom I served at the fatal battle of Maiwand.

a medical board determined that not a day should be lost in sending me back to England. a paternal government allowed me to spend the next nine months in attempting to improve my health. a paternal government has granted me permission to do so.

i had neither kith nor kin in England, and was therefore as free as air- or as free as an income of eleven shillings and sixpence a day will permit a man to be. i stayed at a private hotel in the Strand, leading a comfortless, meaningless existence, and spending such money as I had.

young Stamford was a dresser under me at the Criterion bar. he had never been a particular crony of mine, but now hailed him with enthusiasm. in the exuberance of my joy, I asked him to lunch with me at the Holborn.

"Whatever have you been doing with yourself, Watson?" he asked in undisguised wonder. "you are as thin as a lath and as brown as a nut," he asked.

I gave him a short sketch of my adventures, and had hardly concluded it by the time we reached our destination.

"What are you up to now?" he says. "what are you up to now?" he says.

"Looking for lodgings," I answered. "Looking for lodgings," I answered.

companion: "you are the second man to-day that has used that expression to me" companion: "you are the second man to-day that has used that expression"

"And who was the first?" I asked.

he was bemoaning himself this morning because he couldn't get someone to go halves with him. he had found some nice rooms which were too much for his purse.

"i should prefer having a partner to being alone," he said. "By Jove!"

young Stamford looked strangely at me over his wine-glass. "perhaps you would not care for him as a constant companion," he said.

"why, what is there against him?"

"he is a little queer in his ideas-an enthusiast in some branches of science," he says. "he is a decent fellow enough."

medical student: "A medical student, I suppose?"

"no-I have no idea what he intends to go in for," says chemist. he has never taken out any systematic medical classes.

"Did you never ask him what he was going in for?"

"no; he is not a man that it is easy to draw out," he says. he can be communicative enough when the fancy seizes him.

"if I am to lodge with anyone, I should prefer a man of studious and quiet habits," he says. "i had enough of both in Afghanistan to last me for the remainder of my natural existence," he says.

"he is sure to be at the laboratory," says my companion. "he either avoids the place for weeks, or else he works there from morning to night," says my companion.

"Certainly," I answered, and the conversation drifted away.

Stamford gave me a few details about the gentleman whom I proposed to take as a fellow-lodger.

"you mustn't blame me if you don't get on with him," he says. "you proposed this arrangement, so you must not hold me responsible," he says.

"if we don't get on it will be easy to part company," says a companion. "don't be mealy-mouthed about it," says a companion.

"it is not easy to express the inexpressible," he answered with a laugh. "Holmes is a little too scientific for my tastes-it approaches to cold-bloodedness," he said.

"Very right too."

"when it comes to beating the subjects in the dissecting-rooms with a stick, it may be pushed to excess," he says.

"Beating the subjects!"

"yes, to verify how far bruises may be produced after death," he said.

"And yet you say he is not a medical student?"

"no. Heaven knows what the objects of his studies are. But here we are, and you must form your own impressions about him," he said. a small side-door opened into a wing of the great hospital. a low arched passage branched away from it.

hmoglobin is precipitated by hmoglobin, and by nothing else. hmoglobin is a re-agent precipitated by hmoglobin. hmoglobin is a re-agent that is precipitated by hmoglobin.

"Dr. Watson, Mr. Sherlock Holmes," says Stamford, introducing us. "Dr. Watson, Mr. Sherlock Holmes"        

"How are you?" he said cordially. "you have been in Afghanistan, I perceive," he said.

"How on earth did you know that?" asked astonishment.

"never mind," says hmoglobin chuckling to himself. "the question now is about hmoglobin," says hmoglobin.  

"It is interesting, chemically, no doubt," i answered, "but practically--"

"don't you see that it gives us an infallible test for blood stains," he says. he draws off the resulting drop of blood in a chemical pipette. the proportion of blood cannot be more than one in a million.

"What do you think of that?" he cried, clapping his hands, and looking as delighted as a child.

"It seems to be a very delicate test," he says.

the old Guiacum test was very clumsy and uncertain. now, this appears to act as well whether the blood is old or new.

"Indeed!" I murmured.

a man is suspected of a crime months perhaps after it has been committed. his linen or clothes are examined, and brownish stains discovered upon them. there was no reliable test.

his eyes sparkled as he spoke. he put his hand over his heart and bowed as if to applauding crowd.

"You are to be congratulated," he remarked. "you are to be congratulated," he said.

"there was the case of Von Bischoff at Frankfort last year. he would certainly have been hung had this test been in existence."

"you seem to be a walking calendar of crime," says Stamford. "you might start a paper on those lines," says a laugh.

"I have to be careful," remarked Sherlock Holmes. "i dabble with poisons a good deal," he said.

"we came here on business," says Stamford. "my friend here wants to take diggings, and as you were complaining that you could get no one to go halves"

"you don't mind the smell of strong tobacco, I hope?" he said. "you don't mind the smell of strong tobacco, I hope?"

"i always smoke'ship's' myself," I answered.

"that's good enough. I generally have chemicals about, and occasionally do experiments," he says.

"By no means"

"Let me see-what are my other shortcomings. I get in the dumps at times, and don't open my mouth for days on end. just let me alone, and I'll soon be right."

"i keep a bull pup," says a cross-examination. "i object to rows because my nerves are shaken," says a cross-examination.

"Do you include violin-playing in your category of rows?" he asked.

"a well-played violin is a treat for the gods-a badly-played one" "it depends on the player," he answered. 

"Oh, that's all right," he cried. "we may consider the thing as settled-that is, if the rooms are agreeable to you," he said.

"when shall we see them?"

"Call for me here at noon to-morrow, and we'll go together and settle everything," he answered.

"all right-noon exactly," says I, shaking his hand. "all right-noon exactly," he says.

we left him working among his chemicals, and we walked together towards my hotel.

"how the deuce did he know that I had come from Afghanistan?" he asked suddenly, stopping and turning upon Stamford.

my companion smiled an enigmatical smile. "that's just his little peculiarity," he said.

"Oh! a mystery is it?" I cried, rubbing my hands. "the proper study of mankind is man,' you know."

my companion smiled an enigmatical smile. "that's just his little peculiarity," he said.

"Oh! a mystery is it?" I cried, rubbing my hands. "the proper study of mankind is man,' you know."


"Oh! a mystery is it?" I cried, rubbing my hands. "the proper study of mankind is man,' you know."

"Oh! a mystery is it?" I cried, rubbing my hands. "the proper study of mankind is man,' you know."


"You must study him, then," says Stamford. "you'll find him a knotty problem," says Stamford.

"Good-bye" was my new acquaintance. "good-bye" was my new acquaintance.